---
layout: post
title: "Choose Your Own Appventure, part 1"
date: 2018-01-13
---

Do you remember choose your own adventure books?  I loved them as a kid, and still occasionally buy copies when I run across them.  Toy Joy in Austin usually has a great selection.  I like the format enough that I plan to create a web app inspired by the concept:  you are presented a scenario in the second person, and make a choice.  This decision will lead you either to your death, or let you continue the story until you escape.

Instead of writing the story myself, I want to let a computer handle that part for me.  This is the very beginning of my project, and although I'm following some guides and walkthroughs to get there, it's going to be an experiment.  I do have some defined goals:

1) Generate text (hopefully in the style of a choose your own adventure story).

2) Put my generator on a server, which will respond to API calls.

3) Build out a front end to display the text.  

This will result in what I will call MVP 1 (Minimum Viable Product). I plan to generate SOME kind of text and display it on a web app, regardless if it makes any sense to a human. Further progress will be uncertain.  Will I be able to create a clear beginning, middle, and end?  What about generating choices? How long should each text block be, generally?  

These questions should be easier to answer once I have something built out, with a better idea of how the technology works. So to start, I'll be trying to build the text generator.

I watched [this video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=j_pJmXJwMLA) that introduces  Keras (a deep learning library) through creating a text-generator, so I'm going to be basing my initial attempts on his video and code.  Shout out to Siraj Raval for creating this content.  He uploaded some [companion code](https://github.com/llSourcell/keras_explained).  I'm going to start by cloning his repo and trying to get his code running. I'll do the deep-learning work on my desktop, which isn't GPU accelerated, unfortunately, but should have an easier time than the MacBook Air that I'm writing this post on.

To start, we need to install Keras.  I'm going to follow the steps listed on their [website](https://keras.io/#installation).  

1. [Install tensor-flow](https://www.tensorflow.org/install)
    * I'm using tensor flow because it's recommended by the Keras team, and I'm installing it inside virtualenv
2. Install Keras 
    * pip install keras
3. Clone the example code
    * git clone https://github.com/llSourcell/keras_explained.git
4.  cd into the repo and try to run the script
    * cd keras_explained
    * python gentext.py
        
Here I just ran into my first bug, so I'll post the log below and try to figure out what's wrong:
* ImportError: No module named keras.callbacks

I just realized that I'm not in my virtunalenv, so I need to activate it.
* source ~/tensorflow/bin/activate

Now I'll try running my script again. It appears to be working! I started running the script at 6:27 pm. We'll see how long this takes. I might start cleaning my room.